---
title: AI NLP
date: 2024-05-18 14:00:00 +/-TTTT
categories: [AI]
tags: [ai]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
toc: true
comments: true
img_path: /assets/img/ai
---
#### A collection of AI-related information on learning AI algorithms and training models.

### Word Embeddings
*Word embeddings* are a type of word representation that allows words with similar meaning to have a similar representation. They are a class of techniques where individual words are represented as real-valued vectors in a predefined vector space. Each word is mapped to one vector, and the vector values are learned in a way that resembles a neural network, and hence they are often derived by training a neural network on a large corpus of text.

Advancements in *word embeddings* continue with the development of contextual embeddings from models like BERT and GPT, where the representation of words can dynamically change based on the sentence context. This represents a significant shift from fixed embeddings to more flexible and context-aware models in natural language processing.

The *Word Embedding Demo* shows how words are stored as vectors in space. Words that are closely related are closer in space to each other.

[https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dst/WordEmbeddingDemo/index.html](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dst/WordEmbeddingDemo/index.html)

+ **Controls**
  + Click and drag to rotate the view
  + Use the scroll wheel to zoom in and out
  + Hold down the control key and click and drag to pan the view
+ Put the mouse pointer over a word in the 3D plot. A window will pop up showing the 10 closest words.
+ Type a word in the text box below the 3D plot to add it to the plot.
+ Click on a word to activate it and show its (cosine) similarity to the words in the slots in red.
+ Click on a slot when a word is active to add it to the slots.